When compiling a vignette describing the statistical analysis underlying Martinez-Jimenez et al., Science, 2017 for inclusion in a Bioconductor workflow associated to the BASiCS software, we noted that the number of spike-in molecules present in the cell lysis volume had been incorrectly calculated, such that all molecule numbers were arbitrarily scaled by the same constant factor. These values are required as an input for the computational analysis implemented in BASiCS. This changes the scale of the arbitrary units in which gene expression is measured, but does not change relative differences between conditions. 

Additionally, we noted that using the incorrect number of spike-in molecules led to slightly poorer convergence of the MCMC sampler for lower expressed genes, meaning that our estimates of the mean and dispersion for such genes are less stable. However, in the paper, since we employ a threshold on expression for including genes in downstream analyses, such genes are typically excluded. Moreover, re-running the MCMC sampler with the correct spike-in counts leads to small changes in the set of differentially expressed genes. Importantly, the relative fold changes are highly preserved between the original and the revised analyses. For further discussion see: `AdditionalInformation.pdf`.

In this Correction, we have updated all figures to reflect the updated analysis – the primary change is the scale on the axes when expression levels are plotted. Additionally, due to the scale on which the endogenous gene expression levels are now measured, we have lowered the threshold for including genes for the differential testing from 50 to 1. Finally, we have updated the text as follows: the percentage of differentially expressed genes between B6 and CAST becomes 7% as opposed to 15%; the number of differentially expressed genes between naïve and activated CD4+ T Cells in B6 changes from 2063 to 1314 and the number of shared up-regulated genes between B6 and CAST upon activation changes from 225 to 138; and the species-specific B6 genes falls from 96 to 38, and the CAST genes falls from 75 to 59. We have also updated the supplementary material accordingly.

Importantly, none of these changes affect any of the conclusions drawn in the original analyses, with all results being replicated. 
